[Operator] Add docs for instrumenting Deno (#5962)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/kubernetes/operator/automatic.md

For more details, see [.NET Auto Instrumentation docs](/docs/zero-code/net/).

### Deno

The following command creates a basic Instrumentation resource that is

> configured for instrumenting Deno services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configured for instrumenting [Deno](https://deno.com/) services.
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: Instrumentation
metadata:
  name: demo-instrumentation
spec:
  env:
    - name: OTEL_DENO
      value: 'true'
  exporter:
    endpoint: http://demo-collector:4318
  propagators:
    - tracecontext
    - baggage
  sampler:
    type: parentbased_traceidratio
    argument: '1'
EOF
```

Deno processes automatically export telemetry data to the configured endpoint
when they are started with the `OTEL_DENO=true` environment variable. Therefore,
the example specifies this environment variable in the `env` field of the
Instrumentation resource, so it is set for all services that have env vars
injected with this Instrumentation resource.

By default, the Instrumentation resource that auto-instruments Deno services
uses `otlp` with the `http/proto` protocol. This means that the configured
endpoint must be able to receive OTLP over `http/proto`. Therefore, the example
uses `http://demo-collector:4318`, which connects to the `http/proto` port of
the `otlpreceiver` of the Collector created in the previous step.

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

> Deno's OpenTelemetry integration is not yet stable. As a result all workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Deno's OpenTelemetry integration][deno-otel-docs] is not yet stable. As a result all workloads
```

Note that I define `[deno-otel-docs]` further below.

that want to be instrumented with Deno must have the `--unstable-otel` flag set
when starting the Deno process.

{{% /alert %}}

> #### Configuring console.log capturing in Deno

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configuration options
```

> By default, the Deno OpenTelemetry integration captures `console.log` output as
> logs, while still printing the logs to stdout / stderr. There are two other
> behaviours that can be configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Deno OpenTelemetry integration exports `console.log()` output as
[logs](/docs/concepts/signals/logs/), while still printing the logs to stdout / stderr. You can configure these alternative behaviors:
```

> - `OTEL_DENO_CONSOLE=replace`: capture `console.log` output as logs and do not
>   print to stdout / stderr.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `OTEL_DENO_CONSOLE=replace`: only export `console.log()` output as logs; do not
  print to stdout / stderr.
```

> - `OTEL_DENO_CONSOLE=ignore`: do not capture `console.log` output as logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `OTEL_DENO_CONSOLE=ignore`: do not export `console.log()` output as logs.
```

Question: does `ignore` imply that the output is completely ignored, and hence output isn't printed either? If so then the statement should probably be:

```suggestion
- `OTEL_DENO_CONSOLE=ignore`: neither export as logs nor print `console.log()` output.
```

Author: Updated and clarified the behaviour.

#### Learn more {#deno-learn-more}

> For more details, see
> [Deno's documentation on the OpenTelemetry integration](https://docs.deno.com/runtime/fundamentals/open_telemetry/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see Deno's [OpenTelemetry integration][deno-otel-docs] documentation.

[deno-otel-docs]: https://docs.deno.com/runtime/fundamentals/open_telemetry/
```

- **Is the auto-instrumentation for the right language?** For example, when
  instrumenting a Python application, make sure that the annotation doesn't
  incorrectly say `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-java: "true"`

>     instead.

Reviewer: Why this whitespace change? It should be undone, though the formatter should have fixed / reported it.

- **Is the auto-instrumentation annotation in the correct location?** When
  defining a `Deployment`, annotations can be added in one of two locations:
  `spec.metadata.annotations`, and `spec.template.metadata.annotations`. The
  auto-instrumentation annotation needs to be added to
  `spec.template.metadata.annotations`, otherwise it won’t work.

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

Note that unlike other auto-instrumentation, the Deno auto-instrumentation uses
the `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-sdk: "true"` annotation, not an
annotation that contains the string `deno`.

{{% /alert %}}

> 

Reviewer: I'd rather drop this alert and fold this alert text into a sub-bullet of **Is the auto-instrumentation for the right language?**, which already mentions exceptions (currently for Python). For example, consider replacing the bullet at line 746 of this PR (line 684 in the original file), with:

```markdown
- **Is the auto-instrumentation for the right language?** For example, when instrumenting an application in:
  - Deno, which uses the `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-sdk: "true"` annotation, rather than an annotation containing the string `deno`.
  - Python: ensure that the annotation doesn't incorrectly say `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-java: "true"` instead.
```

@open-telemetry/docs-approvers WDYT?

Author: I added it to that bullet, but not quite like you suggested - the Python comments seems more general "for example, if you use python, don't use the java annotation" - it isn't: "specifically if you use python, do not use the java annotation".

LMK if the new wording works for you.

Reviewer: Yes, that is good. The only adjustment that I'd like to ask is that you make those two sentences subbullets so that the Deno statement is easier to see -- I might even suggest that you put **Deno** in bold there, since it is in effect an important "Note".

Author: adjusted.
